how do you run an effective meeting
that's not boring in this video I am
going to give you 10 tips 10 specific
ways of how you can run meetings that
your employees or staff or clients are
actually excited to be a part of my
first tip is to hook the audience early
on and this is something that's
incredibly rare for office meetings
often office meetings start off with
your typical formalities hey everyone
welcome this week we're going to be
talking about a few different things
hope everyone's doing well and you
missed that opportunity to really grab
the audience's attention but one of the
things I've talked about a lot on my
channel is that if you're giving a
presentation you have this great
opportunity in the first few sentences
to grasp the audience's attention with
something like jumping into a story
giving a powerful statistic or asking a
question so using the asking a question
example you could ask your staff are we
the
disruptors or are we about to be
disrupted good morning everyone welcome
to this week's office meeting and today
and then you can lead in you start with
that powerful question and right away
you've got people's attention this is
something a little bit different it's a
powerful concept something's at stake oh
are we about to be disrupted what's
happening and people know that you are
going to answer that question in the
meeting with great information so that
is the first powerful way to grab your
staff or employees attention start off
with a powerful intro my second tip for
running an effective meeting is to set a
clear agenda if people show up to a
meeting and they don't really know what
the plan is it can be difficult to pay
close attention they're more likely to
get distracted easily
but if they know right off the beginning
what it is that is going to be talked
about what they can expect for the next
half hour or hour it gives them that
relief of okay I know what's going on
I'm only going to be required to pay
attention here for 45 minutes I know
there's going to be a few different
speakers it's a reassuring thing to know
that information the best meetings have
a clear agenda and they stick to that
agenda the third way to run an effective
meeting is to start with something
interactive and positive personally I
Implement something called glass half
full in some of the meetings that I run
and this can be something from your
personal life or from your business life
that is positive that's going on and so
I go around the room or virtually on
Zoom depending how many meeting people
are in the meeting because this can take
some time but I'll get everyone to share
a quick update on something good in
their life life what I find is that this
sets the meeting up with a lot of
positivity even if it's something more
difficult I have to talk about later
we've already connected on that human
level and you get to know more about the
people who are in your meetings as well
this is one of the best ways to start a
meeting fourth idea for running an
effective meeting is to bring in a guest
speaker and there's this powerful idea
which I've experienced firsthand where
bringing in somebody to speak on a
subject even if you the leader have
already informed your employees about
this information when somebody else
comes in it's almost this outside expert
and people pay more attention to
somebody else saying it than you as the
leader and I know you don't want to hear
that but that's the reality by bringing
in guest speakers to reinforce ideas
that you have already explained to your
staff that is going to have a more
powerful impact and I can't tell you how
many times staff members have said oh
I've never heard this this is awesome
information even when their leader
shares that on a weekly basis but it's
because they pay closer attention when
it's an outside expert the next way to
run an effective meeting is to either
rotate leadership if there's a few
owners of the business perhaps maybe
each takes a turn and that's going to
reduce the workload of each of those
individuals because instead of preparing
for every meeting now maybe they're only
preparing for every second or third or
fourth meeting or if that's not an
option perhaps you can invite some
employees who are working on key
projects to give their update and
prepare a short presentation for the
rest of the audience this is something
that's very empowering to those
individuals and it makes for a better
meeting
because you the leader can't necessarily
be an expert in every single different
department why not call on the people
who are working 100% of the time on one
particular area and give them the chance
to grow some leadership skills and
explain what it is that they've been
working on to give a better
understanding for the rest of the
employees a friend of mine owns a real
estate office and he was on a mission to
come up with the best office meetings
possible and he built an agenda which
has 5 minute segments and that's my next
tip for running an effective meeting is
keep people's attention with short
segments short Concepts and he's broken
the hour meeting into five minute
sections each section is no longer than
five minutes if there's a guest speaker
that guest speaker has five minutes if
they're giving an update on things that
are happening in the next week that has
to be 5 minutes and by having these very
short segments the audience which is his
employees or his agents who work for the
real estate office they know that
there's going to be a high Tempo to this
meeting and they are far more likely to
stay engaged so rather than just having
the onehour general discussion which may
feel a little bit long try to break
these meetings into short segments the
next way to run an effective office
meeting is to introduce giveaways who
doesn't love a giveaway and by
incentivizing your staff to be in
attendance for this meeting to be paying
attention and only allow them to win if
they are present either on Zoom or in
the room that is going to naturally keep
them attending the meetings because they
will want to win whatever prize you're
giving away and what I'm starting to
notice from some of the digital apps is
that give ways are becoming more and
more common and I think that people's
attention is so valuable that we need to
start thinking of creative ways to
incentivize them to give their attention
to us and no longer is it just that we
demand it I think we have to actually
start incentivizing people's attention
and giveaways can be a great way to do
that I mentioned the glass half full
introduction earlier in this video but
another way you can make your office
meetings effective is by introducing
interactive elements and this can be
anything from people raising their hands
to calling out for examples amongst the
audience to introducing a digital tool
and one that I've used in the past is
called mtim meter and this is something
that allows attendees right from their
phone to answer pre-produced poll
questions that are related to whatever
the meeting material is about out and
you're getting real time data and
information of how people in the room
feel you can do multiple choice you can
do text written responses there are many
ways to make this incredibly interactive
and when people are forced to do an
activity naturally the kinesthetic
Learner in them they are going to pay
closer attention and it's fun it's
interactive it's a powerful way to make
your meetings more effective the next
way to run and effective meeting is to
test the technology beforehand if you
have PowerPoint slides ensure that
you're getting to the venue early to
make sure that the sound is working to
make sure that the picture looks correct
to ensure that the slides haven't
somehow become formatted in some sort of
crazy way that looks silly on the screen
you want to ensure that there's not
going to be technical issues because
this is one of the most common things I
have experienced in in attending various
meetings is that something will go wrong
with the technology by getting to the
venue early and ensuring that everything
is working smoothly you are less likely
to disrupt the meeting from a technology
Challenge and the same goes for a zoom
call if you need to practice doing
slides through Zoom get a friend to hop
on a zoom call make sure they can see
your slides get familiar with where the
different buttons are do you know how to
share the sound on Zoom go through all
of those steps ensure that you are
incredibly prepared test that Tech
beforehand and my final tip to running
effective meetings and this is
especially for Zoom meetings is to call
on specific people I have sat through
many meetings where a general question
will be lobbed in the air and on Zoom
people are hesitant they may be muted
they may not be wanting to speak up they
might have their camera off and you ask
a question what does everyone think
about
this
anyone
anyone it's awkward it's this long
silence what I encourage you to do
instead is call on specific people
Brenda what do you think about this
change Michael what are some of the best
ways we can stay Innovative next year by
calling on specific people one it will
grab those people's attention but two
you will likely cause more people to
want to volunteer to unmute and share
their ideas but by just lobbing up these
questions you'll either get nobody
responding or you'll likely get the same
person responding to every single
question and then they'll feel guilty
like they're hogging the microphone so
instead you as the leader delegate to
people ask them specific questions this
also relates to in person if you're
finding that nobody's speaking up ask
specific people people questions they'll
probably appreciate the opportunity to
be called on and it will eliminate that
awkwardness I hope these 10 tips on how
to run an effective meeting have been
helpful to you what do you think let me
know in the comments did I miss any tips
for running a great meeting and if this
video was helpful to you I'd ask that
you subscribe to my channel and turn on
notifications my channel is all about
helping you be a more impactful
Communicator this includes public speak
speaking skills social media skills
Toastmaster skills My ultimate goal is
to give you confidence speaking in front
of others and I hope that my content can
help you improve in that area but thank
you so much for taking the time to watch
this video I will catch you on the next
one